# Stroke prediction

With a global mortality rate of 5.5 million people annually, Stroke is the world’s second leading cause of death (Donkor, 2018). Referred by the World Health Organization as the ‘incoming epidemic of the 21st century’ (Sarikaya et al., 2015), stroke is considered to be a very common disease, happening in one out of six people (Phipps & Cronin, 2020). In addition to its high fatality and commonness, Stroke is also the world’s third leading cause of disability (Johnson, Onuma, Owolabi & Sachdev, 2016), with over 50 % of stroke survivors end up being disabled (Donkor, 2018).

In an attempt to elucidate the basic reasons for stroke, there is a common perception that people who are overweight or obese (those with a high value of BMI) would have a higher tendency to contract stroke. A frequent research made by Yu et al. (2020) showed that BMI does modify the association between serum HDL cholesterol and stroke in a hypertensive population. However, the fact that the research positions BMI as an additional external factor does not exactly prove that BMI as its own has a direct relationship with the possibility of someone having a stroke. Instead, it actually signifies that there are other external factors that would affect the chances of someone having a stroke.

This research aims to prove the reliability of the statement on which BMI affects the probability of having a stroke, while also attempting to shed light on the external demographic variables that account for the occurrence of stroke. The results of this study would be beneficial for future medical researchers and the common people to fully understand the factors that actually affect stroke. In order to ensure the reliability of the research, statistical data and methodologies will be used throughout the reporting process of the research

Thus, the research explores the following research questions:

RQ1 : Does BMI affect the incidence of stroke? The research will be investigating the relationship between the occurrence of stroke and the BMI levels in order to provide a reliable truth behind the common perception that Stroke affects the incidence of stroke.

RQ2 : Do certain personal lifestyles/demographic variables (gender, smoking status, living conditions) affect the incidence of stroke? This research will also be looking into the relationship between stroke and the other demographic variables such as, but not limited to, gender, smoking status, living conditions in order to provide the factors that actually affect trigger stroke incidents.

This repository is to store any files related to this project, including research pitch, research journals, datasets, R files, and SQL files for data cleaning. To open this project in RStudio, simply open the ```assignment-2.Rproj``` file. Originally, this repository was hosted on my university GitLab server, but it has been uploaded to GitHub for public visibility (and also because I will lose access to the server after graduation).
